---
title: "2024 Video Games"
date: 2024-12-05
layout: post
author: Zo
---
I played a few games this year.

I enjoy watching videos of people talking about their opinions on video games, films, board games and just media in general. Perhaps this enjoyment even extends outwards people and their interactions with things are cool.

So here's a list of some of the games I played this year, mainly focusing on new ones:

---

**Bold -> Completed**

*Italics -> Continuous game (Multiplayer/Infinite/Roguelike)*
- Cassette Beasts
- Hardspace: Shipbreaker
- *Islanders*
- **Chants of Sennaar**
- *Content Warning*
- Lies of P
- **Persona 5 Royal**
- *Lethal Company*
- Raft
- **Viewfinder**
- *Planetary Annihilation: TITANS*
- Yakuza 0 
- They are Billions
- *OTXO*
- Paradise Killer
- **Hi-Fi RUSH**
- Pikunuku
- Umurangi Generation
- Palworld
- *Monster Hunter: World*
- Baldur's Gate 3
- Divinity: Original Sin 2
- *Street Fighter 6*
- Horizon Zero Dawn
- *Dicey Dungeon*
- *NARAKA: BLADEPOINT*
- Bugsnax
- **Cyberpunk 2077**
- *Dark and Darker*
- *Jackbox Survey Scramble*
- Escape the Backrooms
- *Deadlock*
- *Balatro*
- Manifold Garden
- Wilmot's Warehouse
- UFO 50
- TUNIC
- Factorio: Space Age DLC
- **Elden Ring: Shadow of the Erdtre DLC**


---

And that's mostly excluding games I kept playing from previous years.
**Damn.**

In all fairness most of these aren't even close to being finished, and some I don't intend to to be fair so for all intensive purposes I guess I am finished with them.

Perhaps we should split each game into it's own webpage but for now we can get by having our thoughts on this one page.

---

## Finished Games?

#### Cassette Beasts
This was one of the first games we picked up this year. Although problematic to describe one game based on another, this is a pokemon-like game where you collect creatures and battle enemies whilst exploring an island you are stranded on. The boss encounters are a novel change from usual gym leaders in Pokemon games where they mix up the rules of the game for their encounters. We think the coolest part of the game, and one which could be expanded upon, is the ability to merge two of your monsters during a fight. This leads to novel ideas and incentives you to go out of your way to collect and evolve new monsters for the thrill of seeing what they might look like merged :).

Pretty cool game although Lost interest due to Life events and now don't feel like revisiting.

#### Chants of Sennaar
A game about language and deduction, in which you are thrust into a world with six differing species which all have their own language. You travel throughout the world learning each species' language as well as grammar and how they form sentences which in turn allow you to progress through the world. The languages are not simple english exchange words but each has a unique symbol based language which have their own patterns and logic.

I enjoyed this game although a few of the puzzles left me feeling frustrated. Overall maybe favorite game of this year.

#### Persona 5 Royal
We went for all achievements in this game, resulting in 133 hours spent. We really enjoyed this game and its mix of life management and dungeon crawling led to a nice balance where if you were bored with one you could often switch to the other. The music in this game is also phenomenal. Excited to get game pass which currently has Persona 3 on, looking forwards to playing that as well. ATLAS also released another game this year, metaphor refantazio, which we will hopefully get next year.


#### Viewfinder
A really fun perspective game about taking polaroid pictures and then placing them in the world. Annoying since we totally had this idea for a game during my university degree, a year or two ago, but we're glad someone has taken the idea we never voiced out loud and made it a reality.


#### Hi-Fi RUSH
Picked this game up from Humble Bundle monthly after considering purchase a few times. A fun rhythm game, scratched an itch similar to how Sekiro does, but Hi-Fi has enjoyable plot and dialogue, it's a shame the studio behind this was shut down.


#### Cyberpunk 2077
This game is still a buggy mess, we're convinced the internet as a whole is out to gaslight about the state of this game with some claiming it's bug free. Throughout the game encountered more than a handful of bugs which led to reloads and restarts, in a few cases losing some progress due to having to load a manual save instead of an auto-save. With the caveat of it being quite buggy though, we really did enjoy the time with cyberpunk but felt the main quest was quite short and disliked the secret ending being hidden behind a seemingly innocuous 3 dialogue choices hours into this 60 hour long game which has hundreds if not thousands of dialogue choices, 99% of which have no impact on the wider plot. 

Might pick up the DLC for this game with people spouting it's greatness.


#### Balatro
Game of the year for real.
Streamlined quick paced Slay the Spire.
In this poker styled roguelike, it's enjoyable how each encounter feels like it could be the last but also if it is to be the last it is entirely your fault of your deck and setup, not the random draw of the cards, which is a feeling I often feel in Slay the Spire.

Don't call me bad at Slay the Spire 
***:(***.




#### 
## Anticipated Games
With 2025 coming up there are a few games one might be looking forward to in the upcoming year.


#### Switch 2.
Not a game but with this releasing in 2025, will be excited to pick one up alongside...

#### Pokemon Legend ZA
Pokemon often goes wrong with Scarlet and Violet the performance overall was poor but gamely wise, it feels like Pokemon is moving in a more complex direction, hopefully this signals future titles may be more complex and have interesting novel challenges.
